# The Cost of Cleaning Up After Oil And Gas: Data on Well Depth and Well-Plugging Projects in Wyoming
This repository contains the data and code we used to do the analysis and graphics in the post ["The Rising Cost Of Cleaning Up After Oil And Gas"](http://insideenergy.org/2015/10/01/the-rising-cost-of-cleaning-up-after-oil-and-gas/), as well as additional data notes. We will be adding to this repository, so check back for more soon. 

## What's in this repository?
* **WY_Plugged_Wells_Cost.xlsx** - Excel files, from the Wyoming Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, that include information about well-plugging projects from 1997 through August, 2015. These files include information about the number of wells plugged, the total project cost, the total well depth, and the bonding amount. WOGCC provided this information in two different files, 1997 through the first half of 2014 (which is in the "Plugged_1997_2014" sheet), and the second half of 2014 through August 2014 (which is in the "Plugged_2014_Present" sheet). Inside Energy used the 1997 to 2014 information to make the [plot of average well depth and average well cost](http://1m5rjm4bgenp2600za110opvl3h.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/files/2015/10/Depth_v_Cost.png) and the 1997 to 2015 information to make the [conservation tax fund versus bond coverage plot](http://1m5rjm4bgenp2600za110opvl3h.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/files/2015/10/WhoPays.png).
* **Binned_Total_Average_Well_Cost_1997_2014.csv,** **Binned_Cost_Per_Foot_1997_2014.csv,** **WY_Per_Well_Costs_Binned.xlsx** - The binned well count, by average total cost and average per foot cost, for well projects plugged between 1997 and 2014, that Inside Energy calculated in order to make [these histograms](http://1m5rjm4bgenp2600za110opvl3h.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/files/2015/10/Cost_PerWell_PerFoot.png). To come up with this count, we took the number of wells in each project and the average cost for that project, and created a master-list of wells plugged. Then, we used bins of $10,000 for the total well cost and $2/foot for the per foot cost. The binned average total cost is in the file *Binned_Total_Average_Well_Cost_1997_2014.csv*. The binned average per foot cost is in the file *Binned_Cost_Per_Foot_1997_2014.csv*. Alternatively, these are available as individual sheets in the Excel file, *WY_Per_Well_Costs_Binned.xlsx*.
* **well-plugging-cost-estimate.ipynb** and **WellDepth20112015.csv** - The Jupyter/IPython notebook contains the Python code we used to estimate the cost for wells drilled between 2011 and 2015 in Wyoming that may potentially become orphaned. It uses well depth data, taken from the Wyoming Oil and Gas Conservation Commissions well database, for wells spudded between 2011 and 2015.
* **National well-depth data** - Coming soon...

## How did we estimate the cost to clean up Wyoming's newest wells that may potentially become orphaned?

Here's our basic methodology. The scripts we used are in [well-plugging-cost-estimate.ipynb](https://github.com/InsideEnergy/Data-for-stories/blob/master/20151001-well-plugging-costs/well-plugging-cost-estimate.ipynb), which is a Jupyter/IPython notebook.

* We looked at a database of wells in Wyoming to see how many that were first drilled in 2010 or earlier were designated as orphaned. Depending on the type of well, the orphan rate ranges from 3 to 4 percent.
* Based on information (well depth, cost) about the the well-plugging projects that Wyoming has completed in the past several years, we did a linear regression of cost and depth: cost = 12.3635*depth - 2211.21, p value < 0.0001.
* We looked at the wells drilled in Wyoming with a spud date (first drill date) that was 2011 or later (through August 2015).
* We set up a script to randomly select 3 percent (our estimated orphan rate) of those wells spudded from 2011 to 2015 and estimate the plugging costs of those wells based on their depth using our linear regression model.
* We ran this simulation 1,000 times and then looked at the average estimated cost to plug the orphaned wells, as well as the minimum and maximum estimated costs to plug the orphaned wells.
* We found that the average estimated cost to plug those of Wyoming's newest wells that may become orphaned is about $17 million, with a range from $15 to $19 million.

## Notes and Considerations
Coming soon...